Round 1: Written test (Elimination Round)
There were total 6 questions. 2 coding and 4 scripting questions.

Programming 
Write a function to print the run length encoding of a given string.
Example : 
I/P String - wwwwwxxxxddaaaww
O/P String - w5x4d2a3w2
[5 marks]    
ans runlengthencoding

Write a function to print the spiral of a matrix. [5 marks]  complicated check when fresh
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-a-given-matrix-in-spiral-form/

Given an array of positive and negative numbers, find the maximum product of the pair of numbers in the array.
complicated check when fresh
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/return-a-pair-with-maximum-product-in-array-of-integers/


Q1. 1st round coding: First there was written test on coding and unix basic commands like grep,ping. Then there was face 2 face coding round where they asked - a. Given input string aaabbc print output a3b2c1. 


Q2. 2nd round troubleshooting: its troubleshooting round, where you will be asked question based on some issue. Mine was related to unix scripting and troubleshooting. 


Q3. In the third round it was technical hr scripting where scripting in Linux and some questions about linux and then previous project experience questions was asked 

Add Answer
Q4. The next two rounds where hiring manager rounds.All the questions asked here was scenario based questions .all of them were based on Amazon leadership principles 

Add Answer
Q5. 3rd round technical round: I was asked about my project and if I faced any technical issue. Then one simple coding question related to palindromes. 

Add Answer
Q6. In the second round it was technical hr coding. related tech questions were asked and previous project questions were asked. 

Add Answer
Q7. 4th round managerial: They asked some behavior questions. Then one coding question related to dynamic Programming. 

Add Answer
Q8. In the first round it was coding round 2 codes were asked in this round.go through oops 

Add Answer
Q9. Current project related questions and should be strong in Amazon leadership principles 

Add Answer
Q10. Shell scripts, Java, programming questions and then managerial rounds

Written Test: Contains 15 MCQ and 2 programming questions.
Programming Question 1: Find the username from given mail. (E.g: abcd@gmail.com, here the word before @ is username . So we have to print abcd)
Programming Question 2: Calculate sum of diagonal of given unsquare matrix E.g: For matrix [[1,2,3],[4,5,6]] output is 6 and for matrix [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]] output is 5.

Round 2: Technical Round 1
Programming question 1: Sum of pair of numbers from given array which is equivalent to given value : (For E.g: array ( 1,2,3,4,5,6) and value is 6 . so, output is (1,5) gives 6 and (2,4) gives 6. They have checked all the corner cases and also they are checking space and time complexity.
Objective question 1: In a excel, columns are named as A,B,C,...,Z,AA,AB,AC,....,AZ,BA,BB,BC,....,BZ,........ The task is we have to map numbers for that columns . E.g: A is 1 , B is 2 ,.... Z is 26, AA is 27, AB is 28, AC is 29 ,.... AZ is 52 , BA is 53 ...... We have to find the equivalent number for the given column name For E.g: for this AB is equal to 28 and ABA is 729 . We have to derive mathematical formula for it.

Round 2: Technical round 2

4. Print the 5th word of line which is divided by 3 ( printing 5 th word from line number 3,6,9,12,.....)
5. Check given two string is rotated string . (E.g : string1= ABCD , string2= BCDA. rotating string1 by 1 position will give string2. So print Yes)
6.Trouble shooting question.For E.g : Consider the application Facebook , which supports both mobile app and web app. Problem is a person is uploaded a photo in web app . But the photo is not visible in Mobile App. How did you analyze and find the root cause. I have listed the some steps . And interviewer asked what next ? he asked what next until he get all possible ways

Round 3: Managerial Round 1:


Round 4: Manager Round 2:

This also should be Leadership principal . But interviewer asked Technical questions.
1. Gave a program using Stack Datastructure and find the output of it.

3.Some project experiences






Find the missing numbers between smallest and largest element in the array.

1st Round:
Programming Language(any):
1. Print first prime number after a given number
2. Generate 10 random numbers between given range


2nd Round:
Programming Language(any):
1.Merge 2 sorted arrays
2.Highest occurrence of char in a string
3.Print all sub-arrays of an int array that sum to 0.
Scripting:
1.Print given string vertically - one char below the other
2.Delete lines 20-30 in a file
3.Print occurrence of each word in a file



Notes:
Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out).

There are many real-life examples of a stack. Consider an example of plates stacked over one another in the canteen. The plate which is at the top is the first one to be removed, i.e. the plate which has been placed at the bottommost position remains in the stack for the longest period of time. So, it can be simply seen to follow LIFO(Last In First Out)/FILO(First In Last Out) order.